---
tags: [Direct Debits]
---

# Getting Access to the API

All Direct Debit APIs are openly available in the sandbox environment. In order to access these APIs in Live the following steps must be completed to satisfy compliance requirements:

1. Our legal arrangements covering the usage of the Direct Debit facility and commercial terms have been agreed.
2. Your retail customer Terms & Conditions have been updated to include the Direct Debit payment service.
3. The design content of your customer facing screens used to set up a Direct Debit mandate are approved based on the [guidelines](#ui-guidelines) outlined below.
4. Your maximum and minimum limits per payment have been agreed. The minimum Direct Debit payment is £25 as a default and the maximum is £2000.
5. When the Direct Debit APIs are available to you, the Admin Portal Direct Debit information screens will also be made visible.

## UI Guidelines
The content of your customer facing screens for setting up a Direct Debit mandate must be approved as "Payment Services Regulations" compliant. This regulation covers the set up of the mandate. As such the designs for the UI of screens relating to payments/contributions do not need approval.

We would ask that you follow these guidelines as closely as possible to avoid delay in gaining approval and to prevent problems arising when regulators force change.

### Page 1 - Bank Account Capture
The first page must capture the back account to be used for the mandate. See the example below

[[PUT IMAGE HERE]]

This page must contain the following:
- Capture of the bank account to be used for the mandate. This could also take the form of a dropdown selections of accounts previously registered. In either case the following details must be captured.
  - Account name (exactly as it appears on their bank statement)
  - Account Number
  - Sort Code
- A mandatory checkbox for the user that states "I confirm that I am the account holder and am authorised to set up Direct Debit payments on this account"
- A checkbox which must be not be checked which states "More than one person is required to authorise Direct Debits"
  - Mandates for accounts with multiple signatories are not currently supported and so must be explicitly excluded.
- A statement relating to the Direct Debit guarantee with the Direct Debit Logo***(Make this a link)*** beside it.
  - The statement must read "Your payments are protected by the Direct Debit guarantee"
  - It must also contain a link to the full Direct Debit wording, [see below](#direct-debit-guarantee---full-wording).
- A statement relating to the GoCardless privay notice.
  - It must read "Payments by GoCardless. Read the GoCardless privay notice"
  - The statement must also contain a link to the GoCardless privacy notice at **https://gocardless.com/privacy**
- A statement about how WealthKernel can be contacted for Direct Debit issues, for example "If you have any questions about your direct debit please contact directdebits@wealthkernel.com"
  - As the official service user it is a regulatory requirement that the WelthKernel email address is used for direct debit support.
  - The WealthKernel email address is also the contact email that will be used on all emails generated by mandate and payment activities.

#### Direct Debit Guarantee - Full Wording

The link from the Direct Debit guarantee statement must show the full guarantee wording as shown below. The Direct Debit logo***(Make this a link)*** must also appear beside the statement.

> **Put a logo in here**
>
> The Guarantee is offered by all banks and building societies that accept instructions to pay Direct Debits.
> If there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency of your Direct Debit GC re WealthKernel will notify you (normally 2 working days) in advance of your account being debited or as otherwise agreed.
> If you request GC re WealthKernel to collect a payment, confirmation of the amount and date will be given to you at the time of the request.
> If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by GC re WealthKernel or your bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your bank or building society.
> If you receive a refund you are not entitled to, you must pay it back when GC re WealthKernel asks you to.
> You can cancel a Direct Debit at any time simply by contacting your bank or building society. Written confirmation may be required. Please also notify GC re WealthKernel.





