---
tags: [SIPP Illustrations]
---

# Drawdown Scenarios

## Supported scenarios

Currently, we only support **flexi-access** and the following scenarios when generating decumulation illustrations:

- Taking the crystallized funds in one lump sum payment
- Taking both the tax-free and taxable income in equal instalments over one year
- Taking the tax-free income instantly (with taxable income being taken on flexible schedules)

Note that tax-free income **must** be paid out within one year of crystallization, and so we can only illustrate it being taken in either monthly instalments or one lump sum. We currently do not support illustrating behaviours such as taking tax-free income only in instalments (phased PCLS).

These different scenarios can be generated by changing the crystallization behaviour on requests. Specifically:

- The `proportion` changes how much of the accumulation pot is being moved to drawdown.
- The `amountPerCrystallization` changes how much is being crystallized in the illustration when the `proportion` is `Partial`.
- The `payoutStrategy` changes how the crystallization is paid out as follows:
    - `AllCashImmediately`: Pays the entire crystallization out as one lump sum payment. Separate taxable income schedules cannot be specified.
    - `AllCashMonthlyOverOneYear`: Pays the entire crystallization out over one year in monthly instalments. Separate taxable income schedules cannot be specified.
    - `TaxFreeCashImmediately`: Pays all of the tax-free income over one year in monthly instalments. Separate taxable income schedules can be specified, or left empty if the intent is to keep the taxable income.

We also support using existing crystallized funds, which are already in drawdown, to make additional payments out. However, it is assumed that all tax-free cash has already been paid out or is in the process of being paid out, and will not be included. in the illustration. In this case, the  `crystallizationBehaviour` will be `null`.